AWS Certified Advanced Networking - Speciality
Module 4: Design and Implement for Security and Compliance

IAM (Identity and Account management) - who can access inside your account
  IAM users (authentication part): root account -> create users
  IAM Groups: group users
  IAM Policies (authorization part - what you are allowed to do and not allowed to do)
  IAM Roles:
    An application may need to talk to AWS, create VPN connection, monitor something in AWS from on-premise
    It doesn't have credentials, but does have authentication. IAM policies take care of authorization.
  Organizations:
    If you have hierarchy of accounts. Can help with billing per account. Policies can be applied to hierarchy levels.
  Federating with your existing directory services: SAML - Active Directory Federation Service, OpenID connect
    You (your directory service) can say who can become this role. AWS roles can say, since they become this role, what can they do.
###

Layers of Access Control
  After you got into the account (after IAM)
  AWS implement IDS, IPS, Firewalls and other security services separately (one tool does one thing best).
  Layers:
    AWS Shield (DDoS protection) -> 
    CloudFront, WAF* -> 
    DMZ Public subnet (security group) -> 
    IDS/IPS WAF private subnet (security groups for IPS/IDS, ELB, WAF** autoscaling) -> 
    Front-end servers Private subnet (Security groups for ELB , Web app tier auto scaling)
  * Edge location WAF is the first layer of advanced protection - stops attacks, that less intelligent firewalls cannot stop
  ** Second WAF - learns, what traffic is normal, defends the origin

  IDS/IPS
    Host-based IDS/IPS - true way to scale. 
      Most scalable - In this case you don't need to take care about auto-scaling
      Agents send data to centralized policy servers, logging/reporting servers
      Trend Micro, Symantec, Check Point
    Third-party SaaS providers
    Inline IPS/IDS (WAF)
      Protect from cross-site scripting, SQL injection, ...
  
  Protection at the edge
    WAF - Can block layer 7 attacks 
      Web-traffic filtering
      Starts with a condition, e.g. set of IP addresses. It is different from security groups, which have limit of 250 rules. 
      Condition could also be a pattern. 
      In the conditions you can only add AND statements.
      In rules you can also add OR statements.
      You can also specify rate limiting rules, e.g. how many requests a client can send per second.
      Web-ACL is a set of rules. You can associate with a CloudFront distribution.
      Example: automation using AWS WAF API
        Users' traffic passes AWS WAF and goes to CloudFront. Access logs are stored in S3 Bucket. 
        Threat analysis, e.g. AWS Lambda scripts (or AI) analyses the logs (HTTP flowwd, Bad requests (4xx, 5xx), bots, scrapers)) ->
        Detect malicious IPs ->
        Send notifications via Amazon SNS ->
        Update IP blacklists and WAF rules using AWS WAF API
    
    Shield - block DDoS attacks
      Deterministic filtering; traffic prioritization based on scoring; advanced routing policies
      Shield Standard (free): quick detection using network flow-based monitoring; protection against most common L3/L3 attacks;
        mitigates attacks using packet filtering, traffic shaping, and prioritization - without affecting application performance; 
        available in all regions; ...
      Shield Advanced (3000 per month with minimum commitment per year):
        comprehensive protection against sophisticated large-scale attacks; 24x7 support from the DDoS response team; 
        Available for Amazon CloudFront, Route 53, ELB, Elastic IP (single EC2 instance). 
        DDoS cost protection (if traffic exploded because DDoS) for ELB, CloudFront, Route 53
        Cost of AWS WAF is included for Layer 7 protection
        Real-time metrics via Amazon CloudWatch for analysis and alerts
        Available in some regions
###

Monitoring and Compliance
  CloudWatch, CloudTrail, VPC Flow Logs, AWS Config and Config Rules, Trusted Advisor
  
  CloudWatch is a set of services: 
    Logs; Metrics and filters; Alarms and notifications; trigger automated actions; integrate with your eisting ticketing systems; 
    CloudWatch Events - trigger on event (e.g. call a Lambda function)
    Supports VPN, DirectConnect, ELB, Route 53 Health Checks, EC2
  
  CloudTrail - record (log) API calls
    Enable globally for all AWS Regions;
    Management concole talks to API; SDK talks to API; CLI talks to SDK, which talk to API. 
    Those logs you can see in CloudTrail in 90 days OR you can export them to CloudWatch, S3 Bucket to store/archive
    You see in CloudTrail: who (user), when, what, where to (Region), where from (from which IP)
  
  VPC Flow Logs - see all your traffic
    Agentless
    From full VPC logging to a single NIC
    Logged to Amazon CloudWatch Logs, so you can create alarms when metrics are breached
    Create your own network alarms
    Monitor traffic flows: interface, source IP, port, protocol, packets
    CloudWatch Alarms: as soon as threshold breached, alarm is generated
    Automation: Compliance app -> Flow Log group -> Metric filter (Filter on all RDP reject) -> CloudWatch alarm (if > 100, then) -> 
      Amazon SNS -> AWS Lambda -> Source IP / ENI is blocked OR phone somebody
  
  AWS Config
    Record configuration changes continuously
    Time-series view of resource changes
    Archive and compare
  Config Rules
    You can:
      Assess changes against your serucurity policy
      Enforce best practices
      Trigger additional workflow
    Periodic or event-driven config changes 
    Rules: Pre-built AWS rules; Custom rules using AWS Lambda
    Dashboard for visualizing compliance and identifying offending changes
    
  Considerations for Multiple VPCs
    Get data, centralize data, from there do some automation
  
  Trusted adviser
    Sends emails (every week?) about the below:
    Scans your AWS infrastructure, compares it to AWS best practices in four categories (50+ checks) and provides recommended actions
  
  AWS Cloud Architecture for NIST-based Assurance Frameworks
    What you can do to become NIST-compliant, PCI compliant
