AWS Certified Advanced Networking - Speciality
Module 2: Design and Implement Hybrid IT Network Architectures. 1.0.1

Connectivity options: public internet, VPN, DirectConnect

VPN
  Site-to-site VPN
    AWS managed VPN (VGW - virtual private gateway)
      Built-in HA. Amazon gives 2 IP addresses for 2 tunnels. So two VGWs connect to one customer gateway.
      To avoid asymmetric routing: prepend as-path or set MED attribute
      Cloud hop - when two corporate datacenters speak via VGW
      Important points:
        VGW doesn't initiate IPSec connection (thus, we cannot connect two VGW together)
        On-demand dead peer detection (DPD): 10 seconds -> send "R-U-THERE" message -> if no response to 3 DPD, terminated
        One PSK per tunnel
      Accessing resources:
        Can reach private IPs, EC2, RDS, RedShift, Lambda
        Can't access: NLB, EFS, VPC endpoints, VPC DNS IP, AWS public IP range. 
          Reason - you need to talk to something with ENI to access those resources.
      Monitoring with CloudWatch: TunnelState, TunnelDataIn, TunnelDataOut
      Up to 1.25 Gbps per tunnel
    EC2: Something on top of Amazon EC2 instance (self-managed; self-managed HA and scalability)
      BYO software: AWS Marketplace, open-source
      Roughly about 2-2.5 Gbps
      Detect failures: EC2 healthchecks, BFD, ping
      Failover: some products from AWS marketplace can talk to AWS API -> move elastic IPs, change routing table, ...
      Load balancing self-managed
      Accessing resources: private IPs by default; the rest with NAT (you NAT incoming traffic from on-premise resources)
      Horizontal scaling: You can scale up, but at some point you hit the 2-2.5 Gbps limit. So, scale out:
        Route per on-premise destination. 
        Attach different VPN GWs to different VPC subnets. 
        Separate router and VPN GWs (use EC2 instance to route traffic between several VPN Gateways). 
          Then the router can handle more traffic as it doesn't need to do encryption/decription.
          To make it redundant, place the VPN GWs in different AZs, connect the router and the VPN GWs with GRE tunnels.
      
  Client-to-site VPN
    VGW doesn't support client-to-site VPN
    Host VPN software on EC2 instances.
    Load balance: client software, DNS-based (Router 53)
    
  VPN use cases
    On-premise to Amazon
      IPSec - AWS managed VPN
      Non-IPSec - (GRE, DMVPN) - EC2 software VPN
      Advanced threat protection (DLP, IPS, IDS, etc.) - Amazon EC2 software VPN
    L3 encryption
      Between EC2 instances - host-based VPN sw
      Over AWS direct connect - no support for TLS - AWS managed VPN over public VIF
    Multicast
      Amazon doesn't support it. Use GRE tunneling on end hosts.
####

DirectConnect (DX)
  Now if you connected to one DX location, you get access to all AWS resources globally (in all regions).
  Physical connectivity options:
    Customer router in the same DX location
    Curcuit between customer DC and DX location
    Curcuit between customer DC and service provider
  Set up: choose location, choose speed (1/10 with multiple virtual interfaces or 
    sub-1G from partners with 1 virtual interface). Download letter of authorization.
  Physical connectivity: 1000Base-LS or 10GBASE-LR; network must support VLANs and BGP; 
    BFD recommended for fast failure detection and failover
  Connecting to VPCs
    Private VIFs (one per VLAN) to connect to VPCs. Public VIFs to connect to public AWS resources. 
      BGP connection for each VIF.
    Using DirectConnect gateway (DGW). Only one VLAN and BGP connection is required. 
      DGW will route traffic to required region.
  Public VIF
    All Amazon public IPs will be advertised to client via BGP. Filter routes as appropriate. Subscribe for SNS for changes.
      Use BGP communities to identify local/remote routes.
    To advertise to AWS set BGP community tag on each public prefix to define the scope. This will limit the advertisement 
      of the client's IP range.
      7224:9100 - local AWS region
      7224:9200 - local continent
      7224:9300 - Global
    AWS DirectConnect applies the following BGP community tags. The client can limit what he receives.
      7224:8100 - local AWS region
      7224:8200 - local continent
      No Tag - Global
  You can establish connectivity to VGW via public VIF. Thus you can get your traffic encrypted.
  Same for connectivity via elastic IP.

Connecting to VPC: Multiple accounts
  For second account we need another DGW. We don't need second physical connection to DirectConnect: 
    it is just another DGW between the DirectConnect device and the VPCs.

Connecting to VPC over Peering between VPCs is not possible.
  Amazon does not allow traffic between VPCs via DGW
  
LAG (link aggregation)
  Same bandwidth for all links (1 or 10), up to 4 links, all connections must terminate on the same DX device.
  Configure active/active (BGP multipath). Note: their mistake?

Dual connections to single location (to two AWS DX device). Or two connections to two DX locations. 

Routing preference VPC
  Local routes to VPC
  Longest prefix
  Static
  Dynamic
    DX BGP
      Longest prefix
      Shortest AS path
      Equivalent are balanced
    VPN static (defined on VPN connection)
    BGP from VPN
      Shortest AS path
      MED
###

VPN DirectConnect outside of VPC

  No transitive routing supported: Traffic from one VPC can go to another VPC's resources, 
    but not through another VPC to a third VPC. Packet's source or destination IP should be in the VPC you talk to.
  From DirectConnect you can go to Interface VPC endpoint. But not to Gateway VPC endpoint (S3, DynamoDB).
  Solutions:
    Edge-to-edge via proxy: if you connect to ELB, then to proxy (fleet) in the intermediary VPC, then 
      the proxy connects to the third VPC. We can also communicate to Internet this way.
      Hub/spoke VPC. Bastion host (jump box) in Hub VPC.
    Software VPN
      Use EC2 instance as the transit point
      
  Transit VPC (Hub VPC)
    Use cases: reduce number of VPN connections, L7 security, ...
    Detached VGW - connects DirectConnect device and the VPN instances in the Hub VPC
      Use for 1 Gbps DirectConnect
    VPN software on spokes:
      VGW: fully managed, built-in HA, but traffic have to go via IGW (because VGW has public IPs)
      Your own software on EC2: traffic can go via VPC peering
    Spoke-to-spoke:
      Different trust zones:
        Trusted - use VPC peering
        Untrusted - use transit VPC
      Routing
        Static route via VPC peering preffered over VGW propagated route
    DGW between DX device and spoke VPC
    Two transit VPCs can help, for example, if you want to build one in North America and second in Europe
    
