VPC: region -> availability zone -> subnets
VPC can span availability zones
Regions (Ireland, Frankfurt, London, Paris, Stockholm)
3 availability zones per region

CloudFront - CDN
  Select delivery method: 
    Web (content and streaming via http/https; store files in S3 or Web server), 
    RTMP - stream media files using Adobe Flash Media Servers' RTMP protocol (store media files in S3; 
      to use CloudFront live streaming, create a web distribution)
  Create distribution:
    Origin domain name
    Origin SSL protocols (TLS 1.2, 1.1, 1; SSLv3)
    Origin protocol policy (http / https / match viewer)
    You can have multiple origins with multiple behaviors
  Use cases: caching, high availability, video streaming, security and ddos protection, dynamic and customized content, 
    API acceleration, software destribution
  To access the content, use DNS name of the distribution or your own CNAME

Routing tables
  Default RT is created for VPC CIDR block (which spans availability zones): 10.0.0.0/16 local
  Public RT: 10.0.0.0/16 local, 0/0 IGW (Internet gateway). Use NAT or jump box (host with both public and private IPS) 
    in public subnet to access private subnet IPs from outside.
  Private RT: 10.0.0.0/16 local, 0/0 NAT-ID, 172.16.0.0/16 VGW. 
    Disable source/destination checking for NAT instances (it is enabled by default).
    VGW (VPN gateway)
 
Elastic network interfaces (ENI)
  In security network preconfigure ENI. Allow access to the security network only via VGW.
  
Direct connect
  10/1 Gbps lines from AWS. Sub-1Gbps from partners. 802.1Q, 1522B MTU. Virtual interface per VLAN. EBGP for routing exchange.
  Direct connect locations are spread over the world.
  Connection between customer router and AWS router uses VLANs.
  Each interface can be assiciated with different AWS account.
  Public/private IP, AS number, BGP authentication key.
  Use cases: Big Data (to S3), Hybrid cloud, Latency (e.g. VoIP applications), Disaster recovery.

Route 53 Resolver
  Before Route 53 to connect on-premise and cloud (AWS) DNSs you needed private DNS instance per VPC.
    Consequences: you need to support the instances yourself. If an instance is down, applications wait for time outs. 
  Route 53 - bidirectional resolver.
    At least two private ENIs (elastic network interfaces). 
    Getting started: Choose allowed direction (cloud->on-premises / back / both); choose a VPC; assign security group. 
      Add at least two IP addresses to the endpoint - forwarding targets (two which on-premises DNS servers forward requests).
      Forwarding source - from which IP requests come. Define forwarding rules.
    Multiple accounts (VPCs) can be connected via VPC peering.
    AWS Organizations Integration - policy-based, central management for multiple accounts:
      Share rule set via CARS
      Accounts, OUs, organizations may be granted access to share
    When you create endpoint for VPC, IPs will be associated for all availability zones in the VPC. 

Global accelerator (load balancer)
  Without global accelerator: You access DNS names, attached to some IPs (resourses). Applications cache the IPs. 
    If an IP is replaced, but cache has not expired yet, you cannot access the resource.
  Global accelerator: Static accelerator IPs are between the application (accessing the resources) and the resources.
    Automated healthchecking of the endpoints (resources), routing.
  Getting started: Enter name, add listeners, 
    add endpoint groups (one per region; set healthchecks per group, client affinity settings (source IP, ...)), 
    add endpoints (different endpoints may have different weights).
  
